Hello everyone and welcome to onsight question to solution for the social network company mock interview
.
So the problem statement was given a list of accounts ID numbers which are just integers which contains
duplicates find the one unique integer and as a caveat the list is guaranteed to only have one unique
non duplicated integer.
So hopefully this problem felt pretty familiar if you went through the array section of the court.
What we're going to do here is use an exclusive or operation.
And in case you're not familiar from exclusive work click this link and it will take you to the Wikipedia
page.
But basically it wasn't exclusive or operation.
Does is that it will take two sets of bits and for each pair it will return a one value if one but not
both of the bits as one.
So in Python That's the carrot symbol but let me show you what I mean by an inclusive or.
So you can see here in the Wikipedia link we have an input A and B and we're only going to return true
if one but not both of the values are true.
Otherwise we return false.
So let's go ahead and see how we can do this and use an exclusive or for our solution.
So for our solution we can simply do an exclusive or on all the integers in the list.
We start with the unique ID set to 0 and then every time we do an exclusive or a new ID from the list
it's going to change the bits.
And then when we do that with the same idea again it's going to cancel out the earlier change and then
by the end we are going to be left with the idea that was unique and only appeared once.
So let's go ahead and see how this works here if copied our solution.
And we have Duff's solution takes in the idealist we initiate the unique ID and then for every eye in
that idealists every idea there we're going to do the exclusive OR operation and we can update unique
IP in this manner.
So we run that solution function and test it out on this list here.
The Unique ID is three.
So if we go ahead and run our solution you'll notice we get out 3.
In case you're having any trouble understanding this we can actually just print out a few things.
So let's go ahead and print out.
This is I will go in and print out this.
So we actually print out.
This is the current ID being checked.
Comma I.
And then let's go head imprints.
This is the current unique ID.
Now we'll put in unique there ID.
And then finally we're going to prints.
This is the results of the exclusive or.
And then let's go ahead and put in unique ID
and then do an exclusive or check.
Let's go ahead and try that.
So we just cleared this box right here.
So we're going to run that.
So now we have an updated solution.
Let's go see.
Go ahead and see the steps.
So these print statements are going to be really useful for us to understand.
So Kirgan idea being checked.
Let me actually fix this and say I spelled being wrong.
There we go.
Ernie the being checked is one against the current unique ID.
So 0 1 that's going to return a 1.
And you know it's currently being checked against the unique ID due to the features of the exclusive
or Z of a 2 and a 1 we're going to return a 3 and then a three against a three then return a 0 0 against
two returns of two.
And then finally two against one is going to return.
The only unique ID in the entire list.
All right.
So the key to understanding this is really understanding how the exclusive OR operation works.
So if you didn't get it go ahead and make sure you read the exclusive OR operation here on the Wikipedia
page.
And keep in mind this is a bit wise operator.
So you have to remember your binary representation of numbers in order to fully understand these sort
of twos versus ones or threes versus threes.
So if you didn't get that part just check again how it bitwise operator works now a binary representation
of a number works OK.
That's it for the solution.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture